Key responsibilities:
* Manage the whole marketing activities, i.e. brand building, market research and integrated-marketing functions.
*  Develop and evaluate brand activities including the development of promotional activities, advertising and merchandising.
*  Obtain market share by developing marketing plans and programs for key brands.
*  Conduct market and product research; maintain data base by identifying and gathering marketing information.
*  Understand market/competitor intelligence and cooperate with the sales teams in developing the appropriate marketing strategies.
*  Keep contacts and exchange of information with regional operations on marketing issues.
*  Participate in and contribute to the budget and business planning cycle.
*  Supervise the project to establish company websites.
* Complete marketing department operational requirements by scheduling and assigning employees; develop, maintain, evaluate and lead the marketing team of pan-China.
*  Serve as a member of the senior management team providing input and direction on the company's strategic and operational goals and objects.
Requirements:
*  University degree or above, MBA is a plus.
*  At least Bi-lingual: Chinese and English, any other language is a plus.
*  Strong wits and oral communication skills; analytic skill; active listening.
*  Good at day to day lead and coach.
*  More than 10 years working experience in sales and marketing of _ industry, including at least 5 years management experience; professional in marketing function.
Employer introduction:
Summergate was established in 1999 to import, distribute and market some of the world's best wines to the Chinese market. Today Summergate represents more than 60 wineries from 12 countries around the world.
With offices in Beijing, Shanghai; Shenzhen, Guangzhou, Macau and now Hong Kong, Summergate services the entire China market. We distribute and market our brands to all the major food and beverage operators in China, establishing solid business partnerships with national hotel groups as well as all China retail chains and fine dining western and Chinese restaurants.