Most people I meet want to develop more harmonious and satisfying relationships. But we may not realize that this can only be achieved by partnering with two new and strange allies : uncertainty and confusion. Most of us aren't trained to like confusion or to admit we feel hesitant and uncertain. In our schools and organizations, we place value on sounding certain and confident.
As life continues to speed up, I believe our changing world requires less certainty and far more curiosity. I'm not suggesting we let go of our beliefs, but that we become curious about what someone else believes. As we become open to the disturbing differences, sometimes we discover that another's way of interpreting the world is actually essential to our survival.
For me, the first step in becoming curious is to admit that I'm not succeeding in figuring things out by myself. If my solutions don't work as well as I'd like, I take these as signs that it's time to begin asking others what they think. I try to become a conscious listener, actively listening for differences.
There are many ways to listen for differences. Lately, I've been listening for what surprises me. This isn't easy -- I'm accustomed to sitting there, nodding my head as someone voices his opinions. But when I notice what surprises me, I'm able to see my own views more clearly, including my assumptions.
If you're willing to be disturbed and confused, I recommend you begin a conversation with someone who thinks differently from you. Listen for what's different and what surprises you. Try to stop the voice of judgment or opinion and just listen. At the end, notice whether you've learned something new.
We have the opportunity many times a day to be the one who listens to others and the one who is curious rather than certain. When we listen with fewer judgments, we always develop better relationships with each other. _ . Curiosity and good listening bring us back together.
As I consider partnering with confusion and uncertainty, I'm learning that we don't have to agree with each other in order to think well together. There is no need for us to be joined at the head. We are already joined by our hearts.