I ALMOST failed out of college and it nearly broke my self-confidence. I had been at the top of my high school class, the total golden child. So when I decided that I wanted to attend Columbia University for graduate school, I was sure it would be close to impossible.
My goals were to prove to myself that my years of academic success in secondary school had not happened by chance and prepare for a career in children's media. But first I had to get in.
So I enrolled   in a GRE test prep course and threw myself into the class. The first part was pretty scary and by the third, I knew it wasn't going to get any easier. I reconsidered my plan to take the GRE.
For the first time in my life, I considered how I should go about getting into graduate school. What were my special skills? Would any of them get me into graduate school?
I got a job working on a project sponsored by the dean's   office on campus and enrolled in a class. I had a new plan: Be a top student in the class while working on campus, get letters of recommendation from my boss and my professor, then hope that _ like writing interesting papers would be enough for my application.
I worked my butt off   that semester. With finals approaching, I felt confident I would get an "A" in the course, so it was time for step two. I asked my boss to write a letter of recommendation. She immediately agreed. But my professor said no. She did not know me well enough and the semester was not completed. However, I decided I just would not take no for an answer. I asked if she would least write a short note unofficially supporting my application. After some uncomfortable conversations, she finally agreed. In the end, I got in!
I revisit that moment of persistence   again and again. I have leapt into many other opportunities since then. Now I am starting a company born out of my graduate school research in children's media. Our first product is a mobile game for teen girls that breaks down major life milestones   into missions  . On its surface, the product helps girls connect with each other. But it also helps them develop the tools to live life without limits.