Museum fans with limited time should consider a visit to Ueno Park where a variety of first class museums are concentrated closely together, including the impressive Tokyo National Museum, the National Museum of Western Art, the Tokyo Metropolitan Art Museum, the National Science Museum and Ueno Zoo along with some smaller museums.
Museums in Tokyo are typically closed on one day of the week (usually Mondays) and during the New Year holidays (typically December 29 to January 4). If the regular weekly closing day falls on a national holiday, most museums will open on the holiday and close the next day instead.
Some museums have extended hours on certain days (typically Fridays), and some offer free entrance to selected exhibitions or on certain days of the month. Most museums allow entry until 30 minutes before closing time.
Tokyo National Museum
Hours: 9:30 to 17:00 (extended hours on some Fridays and weekends)
Closed: Mondays (or following day if Monday is a holiday), New Year holidays
Admission: 600 yen
As the oldest and largest museum in Japan, it is made up of five buildings, each like a separate museum in itself. They house the largest collection of national treasures and important cultural items in the country.
National Museum of Western Art
Hours: 9:30 to 17:30 (until 17:00 in winter, until 20:00 on Fridays)
Closed: Mondays (or following day if Monday is a holiday), Dec 28 to Jan 1
Admission: 420 yen, special exhibitions extra
This museum displays western art, primarily by European artists. There is no permanent gallery and the rotating   exhibits are mostly from the museum's collection. Admission is free on the 2nd and 4th Saturdays of each month.
Tokyo Metropolitan Art Museum
Hours: 9:30 to 17:30 (until 20:00 on Fridays)
Closed: First and third Monday of each month, New Year holidays
Admission: Varies by exhibition
Reopened in April 2012, this museum displays all types of art in its six galleries. There is no permanent collection, but there are multiple temporary exhibitions by various art groups.
National Science Museum
Hours: 9:00 to 17:00 (until 20:00 on Fridays)
Closed: Mondays (or following day if Monday is a holiday), Dec 28 to Jan 1
Admission: 600 yen
This museum covers both science and natural history with hands-on physics and robotics experiments and a 360 degree virtual theater relocated from the Aichi Expo.