Between their crazy schedules and upside-down circadian  rhythms, teens have always been somewhat sleep-deprived .Now technology is making it worse.
Teens are not just texting, instant-messaging and surfing Facebook all day; they're sleeping with their cell phones or laptops, too.Or rather, not sleeping.And doctors and parents, many of whom raised in an era when phones were attached to walls, are concerned.
"So many teens are having sleep issues, and parents aren't necessarily regulating the use of the electronic devices enough," says Margie Ryerson, a therapist."It's impossible to wind down and relax the body, the mind, the senses and be ready to fall asleep."
"We all know teens don't get enough sleep in general," says San Francisco."As long as parents allow teens to have these devices in their bedrooms at night, teens will be tempted  to use them."... Teens would socialize 24/7 if they could.
Ryerson calls it _ -- round-the-clock reports on breaking news about everything, from homework to wardrobe choices to ice-cream cravings.
Sleep deprivation is linked to memory and concentration problems, anxiety and depression, and moodiness."Many people assume these problems arise directly from adolescence, which is not really true," he says."The real issue is sleep deprivation.Late-night texting can certainly make the situation worse."
"The psychology behind this constant contact is certainly understandable," Ryerson says."It comes from wanting to avoid being left out.They won't be considered important and significant in their peer group, if they don't know what's going on.If they're on top of everything, they belong," she says.
"What helps, at least for younger kids," says Ryerson, "is parental involvement.If all of their friends are all able to text into the early hours of the night, it is hard for a middle or high schooler to set the limit themselves.Often they appreciate parents stepping in."
"As parents, we want our kids to be happy, healthy and responsible," she says, "and the most necessary requirement for achieving balance is to first take care of ourselves physically -- eating well, exercising and getting enough sleep."