Dogs have an amazing ability to do whatever needs to be done, and will still wag their tails afterward.The following are some wonderful dog stories to share.
Teka
Not too many people know what to do when someone has a heart attack other than call 911.But Teka, an Australian Cattle Dog, skipped the phone call when her owner suffered a severe heart attack.Not only did she bark in his face to bring him back to consciousness and run outside barking to attract attention, but she climbed on his chest and jumped up and down.
When medics arrived, they couldn't say whether or not Teka's unusual version of CPR had any effect,  but her owner feels grateful to her.And her efforts didn't go unnoticed: Teka was given a Purple Cross medal for bravery by the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.                             
Zoey
Size is no barrier to a dog determined to protect her family and Zoey, a 5-pound chihuahua puppy from Colorado, is living proof. She made headlines in 2007 after saving a one-year-old from the bite of a large rattlesnake.                                                                                            
Zoey, who weighed only five pounds, was just 10 months old at the time, but she rose to the occasion when needed.One-year-old Booker West was playing in his grandparent's backyard when a rattlesnake struck at him! Zoey sprang into action, putting herself between the snake and the kid.She got several snakebites and was rushed to an animal hospital.Her head swelled and she almost lost an eye, but with proper treatment, Zoey made a full recovery.                                                                  
Hachiko                                                                                                         
Hachiko, an Akita, was brought to Tokyo in 1924 by Ueno, a college professor. Every day Hachiko waited for him to return from work, meeting him at the train station at four.                                  
The following year, Ueno suffered a stroke at work and died.Unaware of his death, the dog still returned to the train station every day to await his owner.He became such a familiar presence there, in fact, that the station master set out food for the dog and gave him a bed in the station.Even so, every day at four, he hopefully waited by the tracks as the train pulled in, searching through the crowd for his master.Every day.For ten years.                                                                                            
Upon his death in 1935, Hachiko was a national celebrity and a bronze statue of him was installed at Shibuya Station as a tribute.                                                                                  
Stubby                                                                                                          
In 1917 Stubby was adopted by a soldier, who trained him to drill and salute. His owner developed such a strong connection with him that when he was sent to war in Europe, he took Stubby along, hiding him on the ship bound for France.                                                                              
Stubby proved a war star.He served 18 months in the front lines and took part in seventeen battles.He kept watch, warned the soldiers of surprise attacks, and saved the wounded in no man's land.He once found a German spy and held him by the seat of the pants until American soldiers arrived. Stubby was eventually a highly decorated dog, winning various medals and awards. A group of French
women made Stubby a blanket decorated with allied flags to display his medals. 
Want to read more about dogs? Click here for more amazing dog stories.