Summer vacation is just around the corner!  It's time to throw your pencils in the air, your book bags onto the floor and give yourself a break after a year of hard work.  How about a movie or two?  Teens have picked some hot films that will come out this summer.  So get yourself some popcorn, sit back and enjoy!
   Journey to the Center of the Earth 3D, July 11
   Trevor is a science professor with radical theories and many crazy ideas.  While backpacking across Iceland with his nephew Sean, the two explorers find a cave that leads them deep down into the bowels of the planet.  There, they discover a fantastic and dangerous lost world.  They even meet dinosaurs and many animals that have disappeared from the earth.
   However, the burst of a volcano causes the temperature to rise.  They have to make a bravery escape before the heat and other dangers can beat them.
   Space Chimps, July 18
   Ham III is not an ordinary chimp .  He is the grandson of the first chimpanzee in space.  When a NASA probe  disappears into a galaxy , Ham III is recruited   to help bring back the craft.  But Ham is a free-spirited performer who is more interested in having fun than stepping into grandpa's shoes.  But the lazy chimp does become a hero at last.  He learns the true meaning of courage as he and his workmates go to a lot of trouble to save the peaceful people of a distant planet from an evil king.
   The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants 2, August 8
   Based on Ann Brashares' best-selling series of novels, four girls------Tibby, Carmen, Bridget and Lena------continue their journey into adulthood that began with The Sisterhod of the Traveling Pants three years ago.  Now, these lifelong friends embark on   separate paths for their first year of college and the summer beyond.  But they remain in touch by sharing their experiences with each other with honesty and humor.  They discover their individual strengths, fears, talents and capacity for love.  Through the choices they make, they come to value more than the bond  they share and the power of their friendship.