The quality of drinking water in Shanghai will meet European Union standard soon and, a decade later, citizens in Shanghai will drink the best water in the world.
These were the goals set out by the Shanghai Water Authority. With the city's population expected to increase only slightly and the economy to boom by 2020, Chen Yin, an official with the water authority, said Shanghai's water use will not increase from its present amount.
Zhang Yue, director of the Urban Construction Division under the Ministry of Construction, said, "Shanghai is the first city in the country to publicize these goals. They will not be easy to achieve."
He said water saving will help keep the sustainable  development of China's economy.
Saving one cubic meter of water means saving the city's infrastructure costs by 10,000 Yuan. Last year, Shanghai saved 300 million cubic meters of water either from readjustment of industrial structure or the use of new technology.
"The aim is to arouse public awareness of the seriousness of water shortages," Chen said. "The rich surface water and amount of rain of the city are so misleading that they result in improper use of water."
Shanghai lacks drinkable water. The Huangpu River, which supplies 80 percent of the city's drinkable water, is drying up.
The city, therefore, has been exploring new sources from the Yangtze River and growing forests along it to hold quality water.
Besides, the authority is popularizing technology among the public to efficiently cut the amount of water used.
At present, the city has 600,000 family toilets, each using 13 liters of water per flush. These are to be renovated to use only 9 liters of water per flush.
The authority is renovating the first 200 toilets for households - at a cost of 40 Yuan each.
In three years, all the toilets will be renovated, which saves the city nearly 15 million Yuan every year in water use.
Another task is the treatment of the waste water to improve the water environment.
At present the city can only treat 44 percent of its daily 5.04 million tons of waste water. To meet the total demand, 27 more treatment factories are to be set up with an estimated investment of 18 billion Yuan.