Mobile phone users will be able to charge their devices wirelessly for the first time from 2015.
Fujitsu, the Japanese technology company, has created a system capable of charging quite a few portable electronic devices in the meanwhile, such as mobile phones, digital cameras and laptop computers without the need for cable connections. Electric cars users may also eventually be able to charge their vehicles wirelessly using the same technology according to Fujitsu, which presented a system at an Institute of Electronics, Information and Communication Engineers Conference at Osaka Prefecture University.
Claiming to be the world's first of its kind, the technology works on the basis of the transmission of electricity using magnetic fields between the charger and the electronic device. The system enables wireless charging at distances of up to several metres, with the final aim of installing public "charging spots" on the streets in order to enable easy charging around the clock.
Scientists at Fujitsu Laboratories are planning to commercially sell products including the new wireless charging system as early as 2012 but did not make it clear how much they would cost. "This technology makes it possible to add compact wireless charging functions into mobile phones and enabling several portable devices to be charged at the same time without any restrictions on their position in association with the charger," the company said in a statement.
The growing popularity of portable electronic devices ranging from iPads to e-readers is expected to fuel a boom in wireless recharging technology developments over the coming decade. 
Mobile phone users in Japan can currently fill up their batteries using disposable portable plug-in battery-operated devices -- available at most train stations and convenience stores -- although phone companies warn any use for too long can damage the phones.
The new system displayed by Fujitsu, however, is significantly advanced and represents the next generation of portable recharging systems using highly tuned wireless technology. The company added, "We are also looking at applying the results of this work to fields other than portable electronics, including power transmission between circuit boards or computer chips, and providing mobile charging systems for electric cars."