Could radar be the answer to keeping an eye on elderly people without invading their privacy? That's what the researchers are aiming to prove with their experiment. They say using radar could keep track of older  s and even detect when they fall over.
Right now, 40 million Americans are over the age of 65, and the Census Bureau   predicts that by the year 2030, 80 million Americans will be 65 or older. Due to these rising statistics, families, communities and health care providers are at a cross-road in terms of how to best serve this growing aging population.
Many elderly individuals choose to live alone, which causes a great risk as falls and other illnesses become more likely as a person ages. In order to increase the safety and security of an elderly person living alone, researchers are examining the use of through-the-wall radar technology to detect falls and monitor the elderly in their individual living spaces.
Graduate students were trained in walking, falling, and functioning like an elderly person and experiments were conducted in the radar-imaging lab on the campus. A clinical instructor and an expert educated and trained the students on how the elderly carry themselves and walk--with or without the assistance of canes or walkers.
Their research focuses on various applications for radar imaging, including search and rescue, defense, and law enforcement. Dr Amin and his team, through a grant from Qatar University, are now developing a series of algorithms   to identify the patterns and routines of an elderly person in his or her home.
The radar, with the help of these algorithms, can detect when a person is sitting, standing, walking and so on. They say detection of motion, and even classification of what sort of motion it is (such as walking or falling), can be achieved in all rooms inside a home with just one or a few radar units.
"Radar has become a mature technology," explains Dr Amin. "So people have started thinking about transitioning this technology into healthcare."