Nineteen-year-old Christopher Paolini has always loved adventure books. In fact, he plotted out his first book, Eragon, when he was just fifteen!Eragon is selling more copies than most of the Harry Potter books. A reporter from Who's News talked to this young author about his books and how he ended up being one of the best-selling authors of all time!
Reporter :  _                                                                   
Christopher Paolini (CP): I love fantasy. I love the sense of awe   and wonder that you always get at the end of a great book . Eragon was an attempt to express  _ . When I was about twelve, I read a book called Jeremy Thatcher, Dragon Hatcher. It's about a young boy who went into a mysterious shop and bought a dragon egg that ends up hatching. It stuck in my head. Eragon was an attempt to see what I could do with the idea myself.
Reporter : Where else do you get your idea?
CP: I'm definitely influenced by authors who have a fairly inventive use of language, imaginative worlds and a sense of wonder--authors who write about things that other people don't.
Reporter : What was the hardest thing about writing Eragon? 
CP: Probably the editing   because I wasn't used to it. It was a kind of shock doing it. But also I had to learn a huge amount about grammar and commas and other things I'd never paid much attention to before. I'd say that editing and writing are pretty much equal in difficulty. My raw writing is a lot more professional now than it ever was before because of everything I learned through the editing process.
Reporter : How do you avoid becoming frustrated with the writing process?
CP: Write about what you enjoy the most or what touches you the most; otherwise you'll never be able to survive a book-length project. 
Reporter : Anything else you'd like to share with our readers?
CP: Before I wrote Eragon, I spent an entire month plotting out the entire story so I wasn't writing blindly. That helps. I really poured my heart and soul into it. It's not just an adventure story: it is about Eragon trying to work out who we are, why we are here and how we can live honorably.