For Senior 3 students, choosing which college to attend can be the most exciting and thrilling time in their entire school lives. This is also true for an American girl named Melanie in the film, College Road Trip, which was _ in theprefix = st1 /USon March 7.
Melanie's dad, James Porter, is the chief of police for a Chicagosuburb. Incredibly security obsessed , he wants Melanie to attend nearby Northwestern University, where she's already been accepted. But Melanie, 17, really wants to go to Georgetown in Washington,D.C., where she's been wait-listed.
When she gets an unexpected interview, she decides to take a road trip with a few close female friends. Melanie believes it is her first step toward adulthood. 
But despite the fact that this trip is "girls only", James isn't comfortable with the prospect of his little princess exploring the world without him. He wants to protect her. 
James joins the girls and hopes he can convince her to go to Northwestern. While Melanie's father only has the best of intentions, his presence leads to an endless series of comic encounters. 
After following their faulty GPS device deep into the backwoods, James and Melanie discover her little brother and his pet pig have been hiding in the spare tire compartment . What should be a simple tire change results in the expensive car rolling down a mountain, forcing them to hike to a nearby hotel. There the pig ruins an outdoor wedding reception after eating an entire bag of coffee beans. 
All these disasters add spice to their trip while along the way a father and a daughter finally get the chance to really talk to each other. 
The film explores the parent-child relationship in a comic way: The discrepancy  between how close James thinks he is to Melanie and how little he actually knows of her plans makes us laugh first and then think.  
All parents, whether they have college students or not, can relate to the bittersweet realization that their kids are growing up. Like what Melanie and James have done in the film, we all can find the delicate balance between staying connected and letting go.