Get Your Degree at Home!
Have you ever wondered what a Degree might be worth to you in your job or career? It means a lot--Americans with an Association Degree average nearly $10,000 more in yearly earnings than those with just a High School Diploma.
Harcourt Learning Direct offers you a way to get a Specialized Associate Degree in 11 of today's growing fields--without having to go to college full time. With Harcourt, you study at home, in your spare time--so you don't have to give up your present job while you train for a better one. Choose from exciting majors like Business Management, Accounting, Dressmaking &Design, Bookkeeping, Photography, Computer Science, Engineering and more!
Your training includes everything you need!
Books, lessons, learning aids--even professional-quality tools and equipment--everything you need to master your training and move ahead to a new career is included in the low tuition price you pay.
Your education is nationally recognized!
Nearly 2,000 American companies--including General Electric, IBM, Mobil, General Motors, Ford, and many others--have used our training for their employees. If companies like these recognize the value of our training, you can be sure that employers in your area will, too!
Earn your degree in as little as two years! Get a career diploma in just six months!
The career of your dreams is closer than you think. Even if you have no experience before, you can get valuable job skills in today's hottest fields! Step-by-step lessons make learning easy. Prepare for promotions, pay raise, even start a business of your own!
Send today for FREE information about Harcourt at-home training!
Simply fill in your name and address on the coupon  above. Then, write in the name and number of the one program you're most interested in, and post it today. We'll rush you free information about how you can take advantage of the opportunities in the field you've chosen. Act today!
Mail coupon today! Or call the number below
1-800-372-1589
Call anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week
www. .harcourt-learning.com
e-mail: harcourt@learning.com