The Japanese have always loved fresh fish. But the waters close to Japan have not held many fish for decades. So fishing boats went farther than ever.but If the return trip took more than a few days, the fish were not fresh. The Japanese did not like the taste.
Then fishing companies equipped their boats with freezers. They would freeze them at sea. Freezers allowed the boats to go farther and stay longer. However, the Japanese could taste the difference between fresh and frozen and they did not like frozen fish.
So fishing boats were equipped with fish tanks. They would  stuff  fish in the tanks ,fin( )to fin .After a little thrashing  around, the fish stopped moving. They were tired and dull, but alive. Unfortunately, the Japanese could still taste the difference. The Japanese preferred the lively taste of fresh fish, not _ fish.
To keep the fish tasting fresh, the Japanese fishing companies still put the fish in the tanks. But now they add a small shark to each tank. The shark eats a few fish, but most of the fish arrive in a very lively state. The fish are challenged.
Have you realized that some of us are also living in a tank but most of the time tired & dull, so we need a Shark in our life to keep us awake and moving.  If your challenges are the correct size, and if you are regularly defeating those challenges, you are Conqueror. You think of your challenges and get energized. You are excited to try new solutions. You are alive! Here is some advice for you :
1. Instead of avoiding challenges, jump into them and enjoy the game. If your challenges are   too large or too numerous, do not give up. Instead, reorganize. Find more determination, more knowledge, more help.
2. God didn't promise days without pain, laughter  without sorrow, sun without rain, but he did promise strength for the day, comfort for the tears and light for the way.
3. Disappointments are like road blocks, they slow you down a bit but you enjoy the smooth road afterwards. Don't stay on the bumps too long. Move on!