My father wasn't a king, he was a taxi driver, but I am a prince-Prince Renato II, of the country Pontinha, an island fort on Funchal harbour. It's in Madeira,Portugal, where I grew up. It was discovered in 1419.
In 1903, the king of Portugal sold the land to a wealthy British family, the Blandys, who make Madeira wine. Fourteen years ago the family decided to sell it forjust EUR25,000, but nobody wanted to buy it either. I met Blandy at a party. and he asked if I'd like to buy the island. Of course I said yes,but I had no money-I was just an art teacher.I tried to find some business partners, who all thought I was crazy.So I sold some of my possessions,put my savings together and bought it.Of course, my family. my friends-all thought I was mad.
When the King originally sold the island,he signed a document, selling all the "possessions and the dominions"of the island.It means I can do what I want with it-I could start a restaurant, or a cinema but nobody thought someone would start a country.So that's what I did:I decided it would be my island, about the size of a one-bedroom house.
I have both a Portuguese passport and one for Pontinha (where my passport number is 0001).There are four citizens: me, my wife, my son and my daughter.I am the police, the gardener,everything.I am whatever I want to be-that's the dream,isn't it?If l want to have a national flag,it could be blue today,red tomorrow.I can change it any time.Of course,my power is only absolute here, where I am the true sovereign.
I don't live in my country full time, but I am often there.My family sometimes drops by, and other people come every day because the country is free for tourists to visit; I never close for bad weather.Sometimes I come here when I'm feeling lively,after a few drinks.
Madeira is surrounded by water,but for some reason we all have to pay to swim in the ocean now,at the swimming spots.However.I have my island,which means I can come swimming whenever I want-it's as if someone has given me the key to the waters.
Our lives are gone in a flash.All change in the world begins with something very small, and this is my country-just a small island.