ANIMALS have always been used to represent certain human characteristics. Countries also use animals as symbols. From eagles to lions, many countries use an animal to show its national spirit and character.
The image of an eagle is on the US President's flag, and on the one-dollar bill. The bald eagle is a large, powerful, brown bird with a white head and tail. The term "bald" does not mean that this bird lacks feathers. Instead, it comes from the old word piebald, that menas, "marked with white".
The US declared that the eagle was its national bird in 1782. It was chosen because of "its long life, great strength, and noble looks".
A few eagles have even become American heroes. An eagle named "Old Abe", the mascot of a Wisconsin troop of soldiers during the Civil War, traveled 14,000 miles with its men. He was often shot at by the enemy, but survived 42 battles.
But, one of the Founding Fathers, Benjamin Franklin didn't agree with the choice. "The bald eagle ... is a bird of bad moral character, like those among men who live by robbing, he is generally poor, and often very messy," he argued. Franklin wanted the turkey as the country's national bird.
If Americans chose their national symbol deliberately, the symbol of England arose out of history.
King Herry I(1068-1135) was a brave warrior but also wise. His appreciation for the rule of law earned him the nickname the Lion of Justice. He was the first English King to use a lion as a royal symbol, which is popularly known as the "king of the jungle". By the year Richard I, known as "The Lionheart" for his bravery, came to the throne in 1189, the famous Three Lions badge had been formed. Now it can be seen on the shirts of England's sports teams.
Although people might not think of lions when they think of England, everyone knows about the Australian kangaroo. Legend has it that the kangaroo gets its name from an early meeting between local aborigines and white settlers. When asked by the Europeans what these strange-looking animals were, a native replied "kangaroo", meaning "I don't understand you."
The kangaroo is an individualistic animal. Although it does gather in groups, the kangaroo is not a herd animal. If a group is attacked, individuals run off in different directions. Australians think the kangaroo represents positive values, such as individual responsibility and pride.