Planning your holiday? Whether you're going to Yunnan or UK, it's important to make sure you're well-prepared. Here's a handy checklist to help you.
Location
The first thing you have to decide is where you want to go. Of course a lot will depend on your time and budget. Do you want to relax on a beach, visit some famous landmarks, or hike through some beautiful scenery? All these things are available in China, but if your budget stretches, why not look at somewhere else in Asia, or even farther.
Packing
There can be such a thing as being over prepared when traveling, but you don't want to forget something important. It can be a good idea to wear pants with zipped pockets. In certain countries local thieves will target unsuspecting tourists for their money. It can also be worth packing some basic medical supplies. If you are going to be moving around a lot, buy a good backpack. Finally, remember to pack clothes that are going to be suitable for the weather.
Accommodation
There are several things to consider when picking where you want to stay. Location is often the most important. When staying in hotels, it is often a good idea to book your first night in a new city. After all, you will not be familiar with the surroundings and will want somewhere to leave your luggage. However, don't spend more than a couple of days at the same hotel. When you get to a new place, you might soon discover there's somewhere better to stay.
Don't forget
The key to a good holiday is detail. When you're traveling, especially in a foreign country, don't forget to change some money before you leave. If you're traveling somewhere tropical, you might need some injections or pills to avoid disease. And it's always worth taking out travel insurance, just in case you find yourself in a spot of bother during the trip. Don't forget to check the exchange rates. The strong yuan has made traveling abroad cheaper recently. It can also be a good idea to write down the phone number of the closest Chinese embassy, in case you need help while abroad.