Tourism has the power to bring jobs and economic development to popular destination , but how should travelers decide where to spend their money? Are some countries more deserving of visitors' dollars than others?
That's the idea behind the 10-destination list put together by San Francisco-based non-profit Ethical Traveler, which since 2006,has published an annual guide to the World's Best Ethical Destinations in the developing world.
"Instead of publishing countries for doing bad things," said Jeff Greenwald, executive director of Ethical Traveler, "we're trying to offer a favor, rewarding countries in the developing world that are really trying to do the right thing."
So which countries are the most ethical? For 2013,the winners are Barbados, Cape Verde, Costa Rica, Ghana, Latvia ,Lithuania, Mauritius, Palau, Samoa and Uruguay.
Those 10 countries scored highest in three main areas: social welfare, environmental protection and human rights.
Greenwald explained that countries must have a good tourism infrastructure to make the list, but the non-profit Ethical Traveler also uses the list to promote some under-visited places that can be a role model for other countries in their region. For example, Latvia earned high marks for improving its environmental efforts and strong human rights record, and the country's parks and nature reserves make for a great off-the-beaten-path ecotourism trip.
In addition to just visiting these countries, travelers should aim to spend their money in locally-owned business, Greenwald said, to ensure their financial support stays in the country they're visiting. However, that requires a well-maneged tourism infrastructure. While one could argue those poor places need the money even more, tourism can put pressure on countries that face such challenges.
Erica Avrami, research and education director at the World Monuments Fund(WMF) said that a list of ethical destinations is "a wonderful idea", the idea of being ethical goes both ways. "There's also a certain responsibility on the part of the traveler to make sure their own footprint is as minimal as possible," she said.