Dear NMAI(National Museum of the American Indian) Supporter,
Old stereotypes  die hard. And when it comes to the way Native Americans have been viewed throughout history and continue to be viewed today, the stories about life in Indian Country are sadly overshadowing the truths. Most Native Americans don't live in tipis , and we don't greet one another by saying,  "How."
To combat misconceptions like these, I need help from people who understand there's more to Native American cultures than the offensive cartoons that you see in movies and television.
I think that you might be one of these people.
Please join NMAI today and enjoy exclusive benefits like our full-color quarterly magazine American Indian, and Members-only discounts at all Smithsonian, NMAI Museum Stores, and at our Zagat-rated Mitsitam Native Foods Cafe.
Plus, through this email, you can take advantage of our special price of $22-more than 10% off our regular membership charge.
With your support, the National Museum of the American Indian can tell the story both past and present of Native life and culture in North, Central, and South America.
In just one visit to either of our Museums in Washington, DC, or New York City, you can watch a performance by traditional Native dancers... attend a lecture by a leading voice from the world of Native literature... spend an afternoon taking an informative audio tour of the Museum's distinctive grounds... and try your hand at Native crafts like pottery and beadwork. And for those who are unable to visit the museums in person, much of our extensive collection of more than 800,000 objects is cateloged on our website.
Only with your generosity can we share the Native story, awaken children to an interest in Native culture, and bring the Museum experience to people who can't travel to our Museums in person.
By joining the Museum today, you will take the first step in putting an end to the old stereotypes and long-held prejudices that have contributed to an incomplete picture of Native traditions and accomplishments.
Sincerely,
Kevin Gover
Director