Detective Keeling took his client--a goodlooking lady into the back yard of the store together. The lady opened a door in the wall and they entered the small room behind the store. They crossed the room to a locked door.
Mr. Keeling took some special keys from his pocket. Moments later, one of the keys unlocked the door. The lady went into the store. She said she would hide under the table to keep watch on her husband. Mr. Keeling did not follow her.
The detective went quickly to the policeman's house. Then the two men hurried to the jewellery store. They looked through the window. The policeman was surprised. He spoke to Mr. Keeling, "I don't understand. You told me, 'Robbins took a young woman to a restaurant.' Where is she?"
"There she is!" said Mr. Keeling. He pointed through the window.
"Do you know the lady with Robbins?" asked the policeman.
"That's his secret friend," said Mr. Keeling.
"No! You're wrong! That's Robbins' wife," said the policeman. "I've known her for fifteen years."
"What?" the detective shouted. His face became pale. "Who is under the table in the store?" He started to kick the door of the jewellery store. Mr. Robbins came to the door and opened it. The policeman and the detective ran into the store.
"Look under that table!" shouted the detective. "Be quick!"
The policeman lifted the cloth and put his arm under the table. He pulled out a black dress, a black veil and a woman's wig .
"Is this young lady your wife?" Mr. Keeling asked the jeweller. He pointed at the woman.
"Yes! She is my wife!" said Mr. Robbins angrily. "Why did you kick my door? Why are those clothes under my table?"
"Please check all the jewellery in your store, Mr. Robbins," the policeman said. "Is anything missing?"
Some diamond rings and some expensive necklaces were missing. The missing jewellery was worth $800. Later that night, Mr. Keeling was sitting in his office. He was looking through a big book of photographs. They were photographs of criminals. The policeman had brought the book to the detective's office. Suddenly, Mr. Keeling stopped turning the pages. He looked at a picture of a handsome young man with a familiar face.
The next morning, Mr. Keeling paid the jeweller $800, then closed his office.