Millions of kids in the United States attend some kind of camp each summer. Some go to sleep-away camp for weeks, while others attend day camp in their hometowns. There is one thing all those camps have in common, though. More than nine out of 10 kids said camp helped them make new friends and feel better about themselves.
 _ 
What else do kids get out of camp? Plenty!
Kids who want to be stars on the football field or basketball court have their choice of a variety of summer camps. Some, such as the Let Me Play sessions offered by Nike, are free and provide a few hours of instruction by professional athletes. Other summer sports camp opportunities are offered by professional teams or university athletic departments. Players and coaches usually lead those camps, teaching basic skills as well as teamwork and good sports behavior.
Open up to fun
It's easy to be yourself if you have something in common with your fellow campers, even when that something is a disease.
A journal entry by one camper describes the camp's high ropes course as a symbol of everyone there and the challenges they face. "Climbing it and going through that struggle to get up and push yourself is like getting through the sickness we all were faced with at some point," she writes. There is another reward that comes once climbers reach the top of the ropes course and hear the words "good job" from their fellow campers. It is, "in a way, coming close to being cured. Even if we aren't, it felt like it," the camper says.
Healthy benefits
There are also health and wellness camps for kids who don't have any illnesses. For Erin H. of Oklahoma, the first thoughts she had about going to a weight-loss camp were that it would be embarrassing and a waste of time. But as soon as she arrived at Wellspring Adventure Camp, she knew it would be awesome. "I had the most fun ever!" says Erin, who liked Wellspring so much. She stayed for eight weeks instead of the four weeks she'd originally agreed to. "This camp has helped improve my self-respect 100 percent, and I'm no longer self-conscious."