On Sept 18, they arrived before polling stations even opened, dressed in school uniforms, with book bags over their shoulders--and, for the first time in British history, ballot   cards in hands.
More than 109,000 Scottish teenagers aged 16 to 17 took part in the Scottish independence referendum  , in which Scotland eventually decided not to become independent.
The age group only made up a small part of the 4.29 million total voters, but they have "demonstrated how the youngest voters can be some of the most enthusiastic in a mature democracy", commented The Associated Press. Casting their ballots, they were "proud and passionate" to help their nation decide whether to break away from the UK after 307 years in union.
"You feel like you've got a say, because it is going to be you. You are going to decide what it is like when you're older," 16-year-old Erin Cheshire in Glasgow, who voted "yes", told The Wall Street Journal.
At age 16, Scottish residents are allowed to join the military, get married, and work. Eighteen is the legal drinking age, as well as the UK's voting age. But in 2013, Scottish law was changed to allow 16- and 17-year-olds in Scotland to vote in the referendum. The government pushed for the change because "younger voters are more likely to vote with their hearts, not their heads--and _ fundamental change by voting for the pro-independence Yes Scotland campaign", NBC News said.
But when the decision was handed down, some worried that high school students might not be as informed as adult voters. However, many experts said that assumption was wrong.
Professor Jan Eichhorn of the University of Edinburgh insisted that Scottish teenagers were as likely to read newspaper articles and campaign materials as their parents. They would simply get these resources through social media.
"There's no evidence to suggest that they're less capable than adults of voting, from a research point of view," Eichhorn told NPR.
Scotland's move to let younger teenagers vote in the referendum has led to a discussion about whether the voting age ought to be lowered to 16, both in the UK and the US.
"By 16, most people have about as stable an ideology   as they are going to get," Professor Jason Brennan of Georgetown University wrote for CNN, arguing that the US should also think about allowing younger US citizens to vote.