Researchers at the University of Bedforshire have developed a new technique for powering electronic device . The system, developed by Professor Ben Allen at the Centre for Wireless Research, uses radio waves as power.
Believed to be a world first, the team claims it could eventually get rid of the need for conventional batteries. The university has now applied for a patent  application to secure the only rights to the technique.
Professor Allen and his team have created a system to use medium wave frequencies to replace batteries in small everyday devices like clocks and remote controls.
The new technique uses the "waste" energy of radio waves and has been developed as part of the university's research into "power harvesting". Professor Allen said that as radio waves have energy---like light waves, sound waves or wind waves---in theory, these waves could be used to create power.
"The new area of power harvesting technology promises to reduce our reliance on conventional batteries," he said. "It's really exciting way of taking power from sources other than what we would normally think of."
The team is now waiting for the results of the patent application to secure recognition of the technique. Professor Allen said that the team's achievements had all been done in their "spare time". "Our next stage is to try and raise some real funds so that we can take this work forward and make a working pattern and maybe partner up with the right people and take this to a full product in due course," he said.
"Power harvesting has a really important part in our future, because, just in this country, we leave somewhere between 20,000 and 30,000 tons of batteries in landfill sites every single year-that is poisonous chemicals going into the ground."
He added that development of the product could also be "commercially  beneficial". "The market for this is several billion pounds. We've seen market predictions for 2020 which have these kinds of figures, so there's a lot of commercial potential in this area," he said.
Pro-Vice Chancellor at the University of Bedfordshire, Professor Carsten Maple said, "This type of work is a reflection of the university's growing reputation and experience in carrying out creating research."